OSDOCS-24033 [ROSA] New Feature: AWS STS External ID (#116905)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/create-account-roles-with-external-id.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * rosa_architecture/rosa-account-roles-aws-sts-external-id.adoc
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="create-account-roles-with-external-id_{context}"]
= Create account roles with an external ID

[role="_abstract"]

> Configure {product-title} account roles with a synchronized external ID to ensure that {cluster-manager-first} assumes your account-wide IAM roles only when the unique identifier matches your AWS trust policy configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure {product-title} account roles with an external ID to ensure that {cluster-manager-first} assumes your account-wide IAM roles only when the unique identifier matches your AWS trust policy configuration.
```

.Prerequisites

* You installed version 1.2.65 or higher of the {product-title} CLI (`rosa`).
* You are logged in to your Red{nbsp}Hat account by running the `rosa login` command.
* Your AWS CLI credentials are configured with permissions to create IAM roles and policies.

.Procedure

. Ensure that your external ID string meets the AWS requirements.
+
[NOTE]
====
External IDs are not automatically generated by the CLI.
====

> . Generate your account-wide roles and policies, including for Installer and Support, with your unique external ID by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Generate your account-wide roles and policies with your unique external ID by running the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa create account-roles --mode auto --external-id "my-secure-unique-id-123" --yes
----
+
. Optional: If you prefer to review the JSON policy documents before applying them to AWS, run the command in manual mode instead:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa create account-roles --mode manual --external-id "my-secure-unique-id-123"
----
.. Review the list of STS JSON files that you want to use.
.. Create your account role by running the following command provided to you:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ aws iam create-role \
    --assume-role-policy-document file://sts_support_trust_policy.json \
    --role-name ManagedOpenShift-HCP-ROSA-Support-Role \
    --tags Key=red-hat-managed,Value=true Key=rosa_hcp_policies,Value=true Key=rosa_role_type,Value=support Key=rosa_managed_policies,Value=true Key=rosa_openshift_version,Value=4.22 Key=rosa_role_prefix,Value=ManagedOpenShift
----

.. Attach your role policy by running the following command provided to you:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ aws iam attach-role-policy \
    --policy-arn arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/service-role/ROSASRESupportPolicy \
    --role-name ManagedOpenShift-HCP-ROSA-Support-Role

> ----

Reviewer: These steps are a little confusing. Which files should they review? If they only run this directly, it won't work, they need to do it for each file outputted. I'd update this to either include the files they'd need to loop through or remove the specific manual steps (I lean towards including it but making it clearer on how to do with all of them).

Author: see the extra steps I added, and the change to the structure, thanks!

. Create the {product-title} cluster by using the interactive mode or the flags for automation:
+

> . For the interactive mode, run the following command:

Reviewer: This should not be a new number but a subordinate of the "Create the {product-title} cluster by using the interactive mode or the flags for automation:" step.

+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ rosa create cluster --interactive --external-id my-secure-unique-id-123

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ rosa create cluster --interactive
```

----
.. Answer the questions that the CLI gives you.

> .. Select one of the provided Amazon Resource Name (ARN) roles to attach to your external ID, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Select the Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the account roles which have the external ID defined in their respective trust policy, for example:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
arn:aws:iam::660250927410:role/externalid-HCP-ROSA-Installer-Role
----

> . For the automation flags, if you have more than one external ID in a single trust policy, then you must manually set the external ID flag. Run the following command:

Reviewer: This should also not be a new number but a subordinate of the "Create the {product-title} cluster by using the interactive mode or the flags for automation:" step.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa create cluster --cluster-name my-rosa-cluster \
    --sts \
    --mode auto \
    --external-id "my-secure-unique-id-123" \
    --yes --hosted-cp

> ----

Reviewer: Add a note admonition here that says something like. "**NOTE:** Setting the `--external-id` field is optional unless you have more than one external ID in a single trust policy."

    --role-name ManagedOpenShift-HCP-ROSA-Support-Role
----
+
.. Continue to attach policies to the remaining roles by running these same commands.

. Create the {product-title} cluster by using the interactive mode or the flags for automation. Choose one of the following methods:
+
.. For the interactive mode, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa create cluster --interactive
----
... Answer the questions that the CLI gives you.
... Select the Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the account roles that have the external ID defined in their trust policies, for example:
+
[source,terminal]
----
arn:aws:iam::<aws_account_id>:role/externalid-HCP-ROSA-Installer-Role
----

.. For the automation flags, if you have more than one external ID in a single trust policy, then you must manually set the external ID flag. Run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa create cluster --cluster-name my-rosa-cluster \
    --sts \
    --mode auto \
    --external-id "my-secure-unique-id-123" \
    --yes --hosted-cp
----
+
[NOTE]
====
Setting the `--external-id` field is optional unless you have more than one external ID in a single trust policy.
====
+

> ... If you pass the `--external-id` flag during cluster creation, the CLI validates that the specified value exists across your `Installer` and `Support` role policies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*** If you pass the `--external-id` flag during cluster creation, the CLI validates that the specified value exists across your `Installer` and `Support` role policies.
```

Since this is the single item in this sublist, it should be unordered.

> *** If you pass the `--external-id` flag during cluster creation, the CLI validates that the specified value exists across your `Installer` and `Support` role policies.

Reviewer 2: Claude suggested that this become a note instead of a item since it is so far down. Up to you on that one.

[role="_abstract"]
Configure {product-title} account roles with an external ID to ensure that {cluster-manager-first} assumes your account-wide IAM roles only when the unique identifier matches your {aws-first} trust policy configuration.

.Prerequisites

* You installed version 1.2.65 or higher of the {product-title} CLI (`rosa`).
* You are logged in to your Red{nbsp}Hat account by running the `rosa login` command.
* Your AWS CLI credentials are configured with permissions to create IAM roles and policies.

.Procedure

. Ensure that your external ID string meets the {aws-short} requirements.
+
[NOTE]
====
External IDs are not automatically generated by the CLI.
====

. Generate your account-wide roles and policies with your unique external ID by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa create account-roles --mode auto --external-id "my-secure-unique-id-123" --yes
----
+
. Optional: If you prefer to review the JSON policy documents before applying them to {aws-short}, run the command in manual mode instead:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa create account-roles --mode manual --external-id "my-secure-unique-id-123"
----

> .. Review the STS JSON trust policy files that you generated. Create a role and attach a policy for each of the following role and policy pairs:

Author: @michaelryanmcneill  let me know if this added section addresses some of your concerns about the steps being vague or confusing or unclear. I added extra steps that the user must do to ensure the policies are attached to the roles, and I tried to be specific here, let me know what you think, thanks!

+
* `sts_installer_trust_policy.json` for the `Installer` role

> * `sts_support_trust_policy.json` for the `Support` role

Reviewer: You should also add a mention here of the worker node instance role, which is also created in the manual mode but does not have an external ID (because it is only assumed within the account of the cluster).

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ aws iam create-role \
    --assume-role-policy-document file://sts_support_trust_policy.json \
    --role-name ManagedOpenShift-HCP-ROSA-Support-Role \
    --tags Key=red-hat-managed,Value=true Key=rosa_hcp_policies,Value=true Key=rosa_role_type,Value=support Key=rosa_managed_policies,Value=true Key=rosa_openshift_version,Value=4.22 Key=rosa_role_prefix,Value=ManagedOpenShift
----
+
.. For each role, attach the role policy by running the `aws iam attach-role-policy` command provided to you. For example, to attach the `Support` role policy:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ aws iam attach-role-policy \
    --policy-arn arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/service-role/ROSASRESupportPolicy \
    --role-name ManagedOpenShift-HCP-ROSA-Support-Role
----
+
.. Continue to attach policies to the remaining roles by running these same commands.

. Create the {product-title} cluster by using the interactive mode or the flags for automation. Choose one of the following methods:
+
.. For the interactive mode, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa create cluster --interactive
----

> .. Answer the questions that the CLI gives you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
... Answer the questions that the CLI gives you.
```

> .. Select the Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the account roles that have the external ID defined in their trust policies, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
... Select the Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the account roles that have the external ID defined in their trust policies, for example:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
arn:aws:iam::<aws_account_id>:role/externalid-HCP-ROSA-Installer-Role
----

.. For the automation flags, if you have more than one external ID in a single trust policy, then you must manually set the external ID flag. Run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa create cluster --cluster-name my-rosa-cluster \
    --sts \
    --mode auto \
    --external-id "my-secure-unique-id-123" \
    --yes --hosted-cp
----
+
[NOTE]
====
Setting the `--external-id` field is optional unless you have more than one external ID in a single trust policy.
====
+
... If you pass the `--external-id` flag during cluster creation, the CLI validates that the specified value exists across your `Installer` and `Support` role policies.
+

> ... If you have not run automation flags before, answer the questions that the CLI gives you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
